- Our listener supported One Radio Network.
- Well, very pleasant, good day to you.
This is Patrick Timpone, oneradionetwork.com.
Another week of broadcast for you.
Dr. Pollard, Gerald Pollack, will be on this week sometime.
Some, a lot of interesting people
that I won't get into right now.
So stay tuned, check in with our Facebook page.
We talk about things and also the guests
and sign up for our newsletter on oneradionetwork.com.
oneradionetwork.com.
This morning, we are going to spend a little time
with someone who visits us from time to time.
His name is Dr. Ray Peat.
Ray Peat has been studying these kinds of things
that we talk about in health for just an incredible,
incredibly long time.
A PhD, goes way back and studying,
specializing in physiology.
And he did work on hormones back in '68.
He wrote his dissertation on hormones, '72, on progesterone.
And his main thesis is that energy and structure
are interdependent at every level.
Energy and structure interdependent on every level.
And it's the third Monday of the month
and we have lots of great questions for him.
And we'll say hi to Dr. Peat.
Good morning, Dr. Ray Peat.
How are you, sir?
- Good morning, very good.
- Yeah.
So how does this idea that energy and structure
are interdependent, how would this bring a little context
to what we're experiencing these days on planet Earth
with everything going on with this virus?
- A Russian soil biochemist more than 100 years ago
at the very beginning of the 20th century
was trying to figure out how such deep soil came to exist
in a big part of Russia.
Feet of good, rich soil, feet deep.
And he, over the years, developed the idea
of the possibilities that were generated
just by the streaming of energy from the sun
being absorbed by the Earth.
And in this stream of energy,
there are various things developed like chlorophyll
that were able to catch the energy acting like an antenna.
So that a red light, for example,
that isn't nearly as energetic as blue light or ultraviolet,
but with this antenna, chlorophyll can capture the energy
in a way that is just exactly enough
to remove hydrogen from water
and attach it to carbon dioxide, creating sugar.
And following that idea that a certain structure
tunes into the streaming energy,
all powered primarily by the sun,
some of it apparently by internal,
maybe nuclear energy in the Earth,
some kind of heat source in the Earth.
But the streaming energy,
even though much of it is a fairly low energy,
such as red light, if you have the right structure,
like an antenna, it will tune into it
and use it to build new substance.
And then that substance can be run through another structure
in an animal or in the plant during the night
so that the energy that was put in by that antenna
from the sunlight can be drawn out
just as much energy as the plant put in
can be used by the sleeping, the nighttime plant,
or by an animal to create all kinds of structures
in the animal as the hydrogen returns
to the oxygen forming water.
So starting just with water and carbon dioxide,
the flow of energy creates all of these structures
of plants and animals,
and ultimately can build up extreme changes in the soil,
creating a rich world ecology
that supports all kinds of agriculture
and industry and so on.
What has been going on for hundreds of years
is people extracting too much energy,
destroying the structure,
deforesting the continents,
letting the soil dry up and blow away
so that these stored structures and energies
are being depleted.
The whole West Coast now has been mostly deforested
of the old massive sequoias, redwoods,
and pine and fir forests.
And they used to store huge amounts of water and energy.
And with them gone,
the moderating influence is lost.
And so the summers become very hot,
the winters colder than normal,
and you get destabilized weather.
So the deforestation is really the main climate changer
that the whole continent has been changed
to lose that moderating influence.
People often don't realize how important
that the massive living wood of a forest
is during the winter months
when there isn't much energy being captured from the sun.
If you look at the carbon dioxide concentration
in the atmosphere in the Northern Hemisphere,
it rises to a peak in the springtime.
And then as the leaves flourish under the summer sun,
the atmospheric carbon dioxide decreases.
So by the end of the summer,
you're back about four, five, 6% lower.
And a big part, maybe something like 40%
of this rise in carbon dioxide during the winter
is coming from the trunks of trees,
the seemingly inert, massive block of wood
all across the Northern Hemisphere.
This is metabolizing just like an animal
putting out large amounts of carbon dioxide into the air.
But as those trunks are turned into lumber,
they stop refreshing the amount of carbon dioxide
in the atmosphere and also fail to humidify the atmosphere
as they're using the energy.
A friend of mine who had an infrared camera
mounted on his car,
driving in the winter,
noticed big white forms in the dark
indicating warm trunks of trees.
They were standing out like warm animals would
in the infrared emissions,
showing that the trunks of large trees
are emitting infrared warmth into the environment.
- So, as we humans just deforest more of planet Earth,
are you making the case that we can generally expect
more variations in climate,
warmer and colder in some places?
- Yeah, unless we spend the next 100 years
reforesting the Northern Hemisphere,
it has already been changed so much.
The trees don't regrow as vigorously as they used to,
but one benefit is that the total carbon dioxide is higher
so that will stimulate regeneration.
- So, when all this deforestation and the fires
are going on in California,
does that affect someone in Texas or New York,
their weather?
- When the fires were burning,
you could see from the satellite pictures,
you could see streams of smoke going 2,000 miles,
they were visible.
- Wow, but not only the pollution, Dr. Peate,
but just the long-term effects of what you just described
so eloquently on the trees
and the relation with the climate,
that affects all of North America
just from the deforestation in California
as long-term weather?
- Yeah, and all around the hemisphere,
the circulating atmosphere goes from Siberia
to the US, to Europe.
- So, there's no telling what kind of weather
we'll experience five years or 10 years.
It could be colder or it could be hotter,
just depending on where you are
and the way the winds are blowing?
- Yeah, the weather scientists,
up until, I think it was 1976,
was that when Three Mile Island happened?
Time Magazine and all of the mass media
were periodically reporting the prediction
of a coming ice age anytime in the next decades.
Since the 1940s, they'd been talking about
the expected cooling of the planet.
And then, suddenly, following Three Mile Island,
when people were starting to realize
the dangers of nuclear energy,
an article released from the Pentagon
just two or three months after Three Mile Island,
to create a distraction,
that nuclear energy wasn't the danger,
they started the climate planetary warming fear
caused by burning coal and oil.
- Really?
- Creating a propaganda basis for shifting
from fossil fuels to nuclear energy
because the Pentagon depends on the spent fuel,
the material produced for nuclear electricity production,
is what the Pentagon uses for making bombs.
- And bullets and stuff, they do these bullets
that have this magic stuff on 'em.
And so, who did this and what year?
- That was 1976.
- '76.
- Since then, there's been no talk of a coming ice age.
It's all planetary warming.
- And that's, sir, and then '76 was NASA
that began the propaganda on the global warming?
- Yeah, a paper from the Pentagon.
- Pentagon.
So the Pentagon, the war people,
need this spent material to, I think they,
they coat bullets in it, too?
I think they did all kinds of stuff, right?
- Yeah, they use the depleted uranium.
- Depleted, that's the word I'm looking for.
- To make super heavy missiles
that will go right through an inch of steel
because of the high energy and weight.
- Wow, wow.
And there are people that are arguing now,
if you look at the Sunspot people,
are making some pretty interesting conjectures
that we are going to experience
kind of a mini ice age going forward.
- Yeah, the Sun studying experts
are still predicting that.
They haven't been received very well in the mass media.
- That's right.
It doesn't quite go along
with the man-made global warming thing, so.
I guess it's possible, right,
that we could experience a mini ice age?
I mean, if the Sunspot people are correct,
and they're pretty close, aren't they, generally?
- Yeah, yeah, within 10 years or something like that,
10 or 20 years.
- Yeah, yeah.
Dr. Ray Peat is with us,
Patrick Timpone, oneradionetwork.com.
It's rayPeat.com.
His newsletter is rayPeatsnewsletter@gmail.com, right, Doc?
Ray Peat's newsletter.
- Yeah, Peats with an S.
- With an S, Peats, right, @gmail.com,
if you'd like to get on his list.
And I think every couple months,
you get a nice email, very affordable,
get his newsletter.
So here we are, gosh, almost to the end of the year
with this virus thing.
Have you had any other insights, Dr. Ray Peat,
of what you think could be going on here?
Any predictions on how long it'll last?
These kinds of things.
What are you thinking with your research
and with your gut about what's going on here?
- In what area?
- And with the corona, in the corona.
- Oh, if you look at the warnings
that have been coming for 10 years
from the Rockefeller Foundation
and then from the World Economic Forum
and the Gates Foundation,
for example, the meeting they had in New York
about a year ago in the fall of 2019,
they were outlining in detail
what to do for a corona epidemic or pandemic.
They proposed the lockdown
and all of the measures were publicized to world leaders,
China, Europe, Russia,
all of the major countries,
especially those that participate in World Economic Forum,
were given the plans what to do when the coronavirus
mutates supposedly from animals in the Southern Hemisphere
and become able to infect Americans
with the danger of killing millions of people.
All of this was put out ready to disseminate
as soon as they were ready
to actually identify such a virus.
So almost simultaneously with the supposed release
of a virus or appearance of a virus in China,
this meeting was going on teaching people
how to respond to it, how to be afraid of it,
to believe that it is going to kill lots of people.
And they did such a tremendous job
of creating fear in the population
that there were surveys of young people in their 20s
asking them how many people of their generation
did they think would die from it.
And I think it was a majority of them
said it might be several percent of their own generation
rather than almost no one in their age group.
So it was a vastly exaggerated infectivity
and virulence of the virus.
And if you look at those public records
of how the thing was programmed in advance,
there really was no factual basis
for identifying a pandemic or epidemic.
Nothing was really happening
that didn't happen every winter.
In the past, they didn't test widely for coronaviruses,
but when they did, it was about as frequent
in hospital patients as flu virus
or syncytial respiratory virus.
The major things that cause colds
and influenza-like symptoms
never were purely influenza.
They were a mixture, including coronavirus.
So if they had been testing widely five or 10 years ago,
they would have been finding similar rates of infection
and mortality every winter.
So looking at the best facts,
it turns out that nothing happened
except a planned fear epidemic.
- Fear epidemic.
And I guess it would be easy to argue
that if people are in fear,
then they could feel all kinds of things going on
with their immune system and think they're sick
and are really sick.
They can make themselves sick.
That's fair, right?
- Yeah.
If they have a cough and a fever,
they were told that that means coronavirus.
And so they would go to the hospital to get treated,
but there was no treatment for it.
But the hospitals were being paid extra
if they diagnosed a corona infection.
And some hospitals were putting people down
even after they tested negative for coronavirus.
There is documentation that some hospitals
were switching them over to the corona cases.
And in many cases, they were then intubating them
and pumping oxygen-rich air into their lungs.
And in the best circumstances,
when you put someone on a respirator for several days,
their likelihood of ever coming off the respirator alive
is very small.
So much of mortality was the result of the treatment.
For example, an Italian doctor working in Europe
wrote articles on proper treatment
of people with respiratory disease.
And he, after outlining his proper treatment,
a gentle provision of a small amount of extra oxygen,
but not under pressure, not forcing it in,
in his hospital, there were zero deaths
from respiratory disease.
And a hospital also in Berlin, I think it was,
nearby hospital, the mortality rate
of respiratory patients was 60%.
So an all or nothing difference
simply depending on a scientific treatment
or a panic-induced treatment.
- Wow, it's amazing that this continues to go on.
Now we, is it true, in your opinion,
that these tests just don't show
that someone actually has some unique,
virulent, communicable, potentially deadly virus to share?
- Since the best figures on the death rate per infection,
when you confirm an infection,
the death rate is 1/8 of a percent,
right down with the annual so-called influenza infections,
which usually consisted of a mixture of either bacteria
or different viruses or the influenza virus or a mixture,
or in about half the cases,
they couldn't identify a pathogen.
It was probably just stress-induced pneumonia,
which happens in old people.
Their intestine stops working, they absorb endotoxin,
that creates serotonin and histamine,
which cause edema of the lungs and pneumonia.
So as far as the evidence actually connects
deaths to confirmed corona infection,
it's no more deadly than what has happened
every winter, basically forever.
Basically forever.
Dr. Ray Peat, stay right there, sir.
Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
Well, it's just very curious what's going on, isn't it?
Glad you could join us today.
It's a pleasure to be here.
We are live with Dr. Peat on October 19th.
We're gonna do some shows live.
Dr. Peat doesn't do the camera thing.
He isn't all set up like me.
He's not a geeky guy, and so he is just on the phone.
And so we're doing him live.
So you can get your questions in.
We have a lot.
We're gonna get to 'em all.
There's a nice big sale going on right now
with one of our long-time advertisers,
Daniel Vitalis and Sir Thrival.
Save 15% on colostrum and digestive bitters.
Really, really nice products.
Use the code HealthyGut.
HealthyGut, just spell it out, HealthyGut,
and you'll get yourself a nice little discount there.
Use the promo code HealthyGut.
Colostrum and both digestive bitters
have been shown to be very effective
with helping the digestion on all levels.
And these bitters are nice.
They come in little spray bottles.
See, just go, psh, psh.
Actually, put one in your glove compartment
if it doesn't get too hot in there,
and then you can, if you go out to eat,
you can do that before you go in.
And also, a little bit of colostrum.
Dr. Massey has said that it could be
a really nice thing to do as well before you go out to eat,
that it helps any kind of strange usual suspects
that you might get in restaurant food
to not cause as much problems in your tummy.
So you can do both of those.
So it's all about digestion now.
Great sale.
HealthyGut is the promo code on Sothrival.
Save 15% on both of these products.
We're gonna talk to Gerald Pollack tomorrow.
I believe he's here.
Here's physicist, biologist, chemist,
Dr. Gerald Pollack on far infrared saunas.
- Infrared energy is what builds this fourth phase of water.
And the idea of a sauna, you know,
you go in and you sweat and you receive this infrared energy
and you feel great after you come out.
I felt the same and so have so many people.
And most of us think, well, you know,
it's just some sort of psychological issue.
And it might be.
However, experimentally, we know that infrared energy
builds the fourth phase.
Your cells should be filled with this fourth phase.
But you know, we tend to be somewhat dehydrated
and missing some of this fourth phase.
And so what happens is if you subject yourself to infrared,
the infrared is absorbed by your body,
absorbed by your cells,
and it converts ordinary water to fourth phase water.
And then you feel better.
- Isn't that really cool that according to Pollack,
and again, we're gonna talk to him tomorrow,
it's been several years.
He's really part of an interesting fellow.
According to him that, you know, the infrared,
far infrared, I suspect the near does too.
I don't know.
It actually helps structure the water in your body.
He was saying the far infrared turns your body
into more of this fourth phase stuff.
And this is the same goo that Dr. Thomas Cowan argues
and others that are in the blood vessels
that are really encouraging the blood to go around the body
you know, like the sap and trees,
this fourth phase of water in the blood vessels.
And it's not the heart,
according to Dr. Cowan's arguments and research,
it's not the heart that's pumping everything.
It is really the whole body that's doing the pumping
through this fourth phase of water.
So you'll probably hear from Dr. Pollack
maybe Thursday or so, but stay tuned.
We'll let you know.
We're gonna record it tomorrow.
And then we're gonna have it this week.
Dr. Gerald Pollack on oneradionetwork.com.
And if I hit the right button here,
I think we're gonna be just fine.
- We talk about your health, wealth, and well-being
on oneradionetwork.com.
- And we're talking with Dr. Ray Peat.
He's kind enough to come by and visit with us
on the third Monday of every month.
And as I said before, we generally are able to do it live
'cause we're just doing a telephone thing.
We still got a few clicks on your line,
but I don't think it's a show, stop, or doc,
so we're just gonna continue.
But you may wanna call your little phone company later
and say, "Would you check my clicks?"
But who knows?
My goodness.
So before we start taking some emails,
I'm sure you've heard all the talk about the exosomes
and the cow ins, and there's some people in the world
that are really arguing that there really, really isn't
some virus going around that you and I are getting,
that the body's creating these exosomes
when they get poisoned,
and that's what we're sharing in all of that.
I think the last time we talked,
you were kind of a, kind of sorta on that idea,
not necessarily all in, but some of it.
- I think all organisms have been shedding
their genetic information in different ways,
and the exosomes, pretty much for the last 50 years,
they've been identified, it's only the last 15 years
that there's really much study going on.
And internally, they are now recognized
as a maintenance repair process.
When a tissue is under stress,
it sends out these exosomes secreted
into the bloodstream and lymphatic system,
and they're carried to the bone marrow, for example,
where replacement cells and repair cells can be made.
So there's a two-way communication going constantly,
and it increases under stress.
And some of these can escape,
for example, from the lungs.
Coughing or sneezing can blow saliva and mucus
into the air, carrying some of these exosomes.
And so it is only a new branch of biology,
but the basis has been understood for 80 years or more
that there seems to be sharing of genetic information
across species all over the world.
Genes or fragments of genes are drifting around
and being absorbed by other species.
And viruses have a structure similar to these exosomes,
which they're named exosomes with reference
to the individual cell that creates them,
and they're external to the cell,
but they've been studied
as an internal communication process,
but they're also exosomes in the sense
of being external to the body.
And in that situation, then they can function as viruses.
And under an electron microscope,
many of them have a complicated structure
and can be confused for virus particles.
And in fact, there are no very good
electron microscope studies confirming
that there is such a thing as a coronavirus
in these infected people.
The coronavirus has been imaged over the last 20 years,
but this particular coronavirus,
no one has caught enough of them
to really study it visually under the microscope.
- Yeah, so that's what Cowan's group has argued,
that they have people out there looking for it,
but nobody's ever really found it.
So you're saying that only because
they just haven't found enough of it?
- Yeah, and the testing is now somewhat more scientific.
For a while, they were mixing together PCR tests
which simply amplify any trace of nucleic acid
that resembles those in the virus.
And those tests were even questionable
since no one proved that the original sample
that they used as a reference,
that that was actually present in the infected people.
So the PCR test itself,
its meaning was not generally agreed on.
And then the antibodies based on a blood test
were being mixed in,
and all of these positive tests
with their different meaning were being called cases
even though the person wasn't sick.
A positive test in a healthy person
still allowed them to be called a case of coronavirus.
And in some cases,
if they happened to die of any cause
after having a positive test,
they were put down as a coronavirus death.
And there is now called a rapid antigen test
which uses traditional immunology tests
to identify different antigens on the virus.
And so that seems like a more reasonable test
assuming that they had the real thing
to standardize their test on.
- Do they have the real thing to standardize their test?
- That's what is in question.
- We don't know.
We don't know.
- Hmm.
Well, I guess as long as the world in general
continue to connect Dr. Peat,
the testing positive with cases,
this is just going to go on, it seems like, right?
I mean, there's more lockdowns in Europe and in France
and the UK are doing passports for people with,
as you see this,
what they're proposing in the UK
is if you test positive,
or if you test negative, you'll get a little passport
and you can go out without a mask.
And if you test positive, well, then you can't.
- Yeah.
And the rising number of cases
in the places that I've looked at the data,
the increasing testing has corresponded exactly
to the increased number of cases.
And so if you test 10 times as many people
this week as you did last week,
it looks like you have 10 times as many cases.
And so you have an epidemic of testing
rather than a natural sickness epidemic.
- Yes, sir.
Well, very, very curious.
Ray Peat is with us,
Patrick Timpone, oneradionetwork.com.
Let's dig into a few emails for you, Dr. Peat.
This is from Grace.
She says, "Broda-Barnes method
"for diagnosing thyroid issue is simple.
"Physicians do not agree with this method or diagnosis.
"If a male or female over 55 low body temperatures
"consistently decides to supplement thyroid,
"which one seems like an optimal option?"
"Sinomal or Sinoplus, and why the preference?"
- Oh, Sinoplus or Sinoplus is the balanced T4, T3
in a four to one ratio,
which is similar to the glandular tissue
that occurs in humans, pigs, and cows and so on.
And so for the first 100 years of thyroid supplements,
they used the meatpacking industry's thyroid glands
dehydrated, and that is what Broda-Barnes researched
in the 1930s when he wrote this book,
Solved the Riddle of Heart Attacks, for example,
and Hypothyroidism, the Unsuspected Illness.
He was doing actually fieldwork, empirical study,
showing the association of the metabolic rate
and the symptoms of hypothyroidism.
And at that time, the recognized absolute
definition of hypothyroidism was to measure
the oxygen consumption or the carbon dioxide production,
same thing, but the oxygen consumption per minute at rest.
And that, it took an apparatus that cost a couple hundred
dollars that many doctors had in their offices
and the patient would just come in before eating,
lie down quietly, and breathe through the machine
for two or three minutes.
And if they were hypothyroid, they would only use
a very small amount of air per minute.
If they were hypothyroid, they could go through
the reservoir of air in half the time or a fourth
of the time, so it's very easy to do
and is absolutely definitive.
A person can't live on half the normal amount of oxygen
if they're producing energy, if the energy is flowing
through their system at a proper rate.
And that reduced flow of energy is what leads
to the accumulation of jellied edema under their skin
is where you see it, a thickening of the subcutaneous
layers and thickening of the blood vessels,
increasing blood pressure problems, strokes,
everything circulatory and dependent on energy
becomes a problem when the energy isn't flowing
through the system.
And Broderbarnes found that simply taking
the temperature orally, well, he advocated
under the armpit temperature, if you would lie
for 10 or 15 minutes with a thermometer in your armpit,
he found that that was as reliable as the oxygen test
almost, but he was, most of his career,
he worked in Colorado Springs where the climate is cool
and so hypothyroid people would be exposed most of the year
to a cool climate and so their low temperature
always showed up.
I found that in a warm Eugene summer
where the humidity is high, many hypothyroid people
during the summer would have approximately
normal temperatures, but their heart would still
be pumping very, very slowly, sometimes way down
into the 35 to 40 beats per minute range.
Never up into the 75 to 85 range
where a normal metabolizing person has a heart rate
even during warm weather.
So his temperature basis for diagnosis
was extremely scientific, but it was dismissed
under the influence of drug company advertising
when a product, Synthroid, came on the market
which consisted only of thyroxine T4.
That was tested on young men, healthy young men,
medical students, no women were tested
and they found that the effect of synthetic thyroxine
was the same as the standardized glandular
armor thyroid product and on that basis of equivalency,
they then began testing the blood content of iodine
to confirm the presence of the thyroid hormone.
So first they didn't test the Synthroid on females
and females have several times the incidence
of low thyroid problems because of the effect
of estrogen blocking thyroid secretion.
And so all of the women who were getting along
with a glandular thyroid supplement were shifted
over to synthetic thyroid and began suffering
the symptoms of hypothyroidism.
And in that population of improperly treated,
mostly women, most of the patients were women,
they found that the blood tests showed very few women
were actually deficient in protein-bound iodine
and so they said even though someone has hypothyroid symptoms
95% of those showed that they have enough iodine
in the blood so they created the illusion based
on an improper diagnosis of who is hypothyroid
to say that only 5% of the people have any blood evidence
of hypothyroidism and after using that test
for about 20 years, they discovered it had absolutely
no relation to hypothyroidism and at that point
they shifted to testing the thyroid stimulating hormone TSH
as the technology developed to measure that very small
trace hormone in the blood and so that test
which became very specific and technically accurate
was imposed on this false belief that 95% of the population
are not hypothyroid and so they stretched the definition
of what the normal TSH should be to fit this untreated
hypothyroid, mainly female population.
So now we have the dogmatic medical opinion
that no one should receive a thyroid supplement
if their TSH is in the range of from 0.5
to usually now 4.5 on the scale
and I've never seen anyone at all healthy
who had two or higher on that scale
and the healthiest populations are in the range below 0.4.
- On the TSH, on the TSH.
- Yeah, so what the diagnostic standard is now for normal
includes very few normal functionally healthy people
but it's simply saying that being hypothyroid
is now normal for the American population.
- Oh, what a fascinating.
- And if you're the average hypothyroid person
then the combination T4, T3 product of Sinoplus
is going to most likely take care of your symptoms.
The T3, it has become popular among bodybuilders
because you can instantly get hyperthyroid
and it can be very stressful to take a replacement dose
of T3 very suddenly.
They tend to take a whole tablet at once
and the body produces only about at most a 10th
of a tablet equivalent per hour.
So the doses they're using in bodybuilding and so on
are about 10 times too high.
T3 can be useful, for example,
first time I heard about its use was a woman
who was in a hypothyroid coma
while taking four grains equivalent
or 400 micrograms of Synthroid.
The more Synthroid she took,
the deeper she went into the coma.
And within two or three hours of giving
the right amount of T3 intravenously,
she was out of the coma
and immediately returned to good health.
So some T3 is absolutely essential
and women are the most likely to be deficient
in the ability to make their own T3.
So occasionally, small amounts of T3
can bring a person out of a problem
but the maintenance should be the combination
either a glandular or a Sinoplus.
- And the Sinoplus and those,
people get those at those Mexican pharmacies, right?
You talked about.
- Yeah. - Yeah, yeah.
But the T3, like you were saying,
if you're gonna mess with that,
you just do a very little bit, right?
- Yeah, a tenth of a tablet.
- Tenth of a tablet.
- Gives you a very noticeable acceleration
of your heart rate and oxygen consumption.
- Tenth of a tablet.
Those are small little tablets.
It's pretty tricky to do a tenth, right?
With, I guess, with a razor blade or?
- Or you can get a pill crusher
and just make powder out of it and then.
- Divide it up.
- Yeah, divide it.
- Yeah.
Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick Timpone, oneradionetwork.com.
Here is Thomas and he's in Sweden
and Thomas has frequent headaches
and what I've come to understand lately,
they're kind of, I guess, would be classified as migraines.
For some reason, the trypanoclostomy,
the trypan class of migraine drugs
that work on raising serotonin,
at least as I understand it, seem to work quite well
where no other pain medications has done much at all for me.
I'd be very interested to hear Dr. Peat's general idea
about the cause of migraines,
especially since, as most know by now,
he's no fan of serotonin.
- My own experience with migraines
was what got me interested in endocrinology many years ago
and I soon found out that women have the majority
of migraines just like they have the majority
of hypothyroidism about the same frequency
because it's very closely related.
And vasodilation in the brain
or swelling of arteries is one of the problems
and constricting arteries can stop the problem
but the trouble is that serotonin slows metabolism,
can interfere with the actual production
of active T3 hormone and it tends to constrict veins
and the outflow of blood as well as the arteries
that are causing the throbbing and pain.
So even though it can stop the throbbing pain,
it isn't solving the problem.
And serotonin turns out to be high in migrainers
and that's been known from the early days
of studying serotonin metabolism.
They saw that both histamine and serotonin
are increased in migrainers during an attack.
And my own experience was that thyroid supplements
were the main preventive thing
but I had also noticed that skipping a meal,
for example, on the weekend when I changed my meal schedule
was when I would end up with a migraine.
And that's a common experience.
The low blood sugar and interference
with the intestines rhythm,
going back to the 1920s,
a medical professor demonstrated,
he was arguing that headaches aren't caused by toxins
but by pressure.
And he had his medical students stuff cotton wads
into their rectums and the next day,
those who suffered from migraines and other headaches
reported that they had their headache,
demonstrating that in a sensitive person,
pressure in the lower intestine would bring on a headache.
And that helps to explain why changing your meal rhythm
helps to bring on a headache
because especially if you have eaten
something that's hard to digest,
that irritates the intestine
and tends to cause congestion or pressure in the intestine,
when that's combined with a declining blood glucose,
that combination is what triggers the headache.
And so thyroid supplements
decrease the irritability of the intestine,
keep your blood sugar steady.
But added to that,
if you have a daily carrot or other fiber in your diet,
that helps to avoid stasis and congestion in the intestine,
that combination is preventive of the headaches
and also happens to prevent surges
of histamine and serotonin.
The intestine is the source
of almost all the body's serotonin.
95% of the serotonin is produced in the intestine
and transported through the blood to the lungs
where most of it is detoxified.
And if there's extra inflammation in the intestine
from pressure or undigested food,
then the burden on the lungs
to detoxify the serotonin is increased.
And a decrease in blood sugar
lowers the ability to detoxify the serotonin.
And then you get the veins of the brain
that are constricting,
allowing congestion of the volume of blood
in the head increases
even though the consumption of oxygen
and sugar has decreased.
So it turns out that serotonin
coming from hypothyroid digestive related problem,
the excess serotonin becomes
an essential cause of the headache.
- Very interesting.
So you're kind of a big fan
of doing these carrot salads, right?
Almost for anybody.
Just good, degraded carrots, right?
- Yeah, for example,
a woman at a clinic for fertility
accidentally found out that giving
the infertile women an antibiotic,
a lot of them said their headaches
were cured by taking the antibiotic.
And they looked at their blood hormones
and saw that where they had had previously
high cortisol and estrogen
and low progesterone in their blood,
the antibiotic had reversed that pattern,
increased their progesterone,
lowered both their estrogen and cortisol.
And they figured out that the antibiotic
had stopped a bacterial process
that was blocking the liver's detoxifying action.
When your thyroid is low, for example,
the liver excretes estrogen
into the gut trying to get rid of it.
But a low thyroid person has sluggish digestion
and that excreted estrogen is reabsorbed
from the gut back into the liver
and creates stress hormones
and accumulated high estrogen
blocking progesterone production.
And so the antibiotic was improving
their intestinal health
and therefore their hormonal health.
And I tested the idea of just eating a big carrot every day
and had women with this pattern
of high stress hormones and estrogen
and low progesterone.
And within three days of a daily carrot salad,
they had experienced the same hormonal change
that taking an antibiotic did.
- Three days of a carrot salad.
And you like to do, let's see if I recall,
a little bit of, let's see,
is it coconut oil and apple cider vinegar?
- Yeah, that's-- - A little bit?
- Any vinegar and basically any fairly saturated oil.
Olive oil tastes better, but coconut oil is,
the trouble on the salad is it solidifies.
- Yeah. - And so I like
a little mixture of olive and coconut oil.
- Do you think in general,
consuming coconut oil for most people
could be a good thing for us?
Is it a good food?
- Yeah, it's a good, safe food.
I found when I first experimented with it
that my respiration rate increased.
It activated my thyroid function
to have a tablespoon added to my supper.
And doing that regularly,
my weight stabilized 10 pounds lower
because it was increasing my metabolic rate
just with a tablespoon a day.
- Oh yeah, we've heard about that
and the thyroid and coconut oil.
I think we've interviewed some people over the years
that actually experienced that.
That's curious.
Let's see, so many emails here.
This lady, what does Dr. Peat think of smoked oysters
in a can, say in olive oil?
Are they safe when it comes to dioxins,
content and other heavy metals?
- You have to balance how delicious and nutritious they are
against the fact that things from the ocean
are now generally more radioactive than ever.
But eventually it's going to be in all of our food.
So I think having a can of them once a month,
you could consider to be safe.
But if you ate a can every day,
then you could worry about the heavy metals and radiation.
- Yeah, so I wonder what about shrimp,
oysters and things like that from internal waters
like the Gulf.
I mean, they had their issues with the oil some years ago,
but do you think that's a better choice in the ocean?
- In terms of radiation, it is, but other pollutants.
- Yeah, who knows what's down there, right?
- Yeah, the Mississippi River is pouring out
huge amounts of industrial pollution.
- That's tough.
Here's a lady, Dr. Peat, she says that she has
type two diabetes and would like to control it
without drugs.
Is there anything that I could do
to begin my journey in this?
- Yeah, checking your cortisol is one thing.
The metabolic syndrome is very similar
to what they call type two diabetes.
It's a stress pattern that goes with weight gain,
inability to oxidize glucose properly.
So making sure that your thyroid hormone is good,
your digestion is good,
and definitely avoiding polyunsaturated fats,
which are blockers of thyroid hormone secretion and action.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, the old poopers, huh?
Here's the lady, she's 70, and my hair's still brown,
but it keeps falling out.
And hair that easily pulls out at the root.
And she wants to know what could be the cause of that.
- What keeps falling out?
- Her hair keeps kinda coming out, yeah.
- Usually low thyroid is behind that,
but the thyroid is closely connected to the parathyroid.
When you're low in thyroid,
you tend to lose both sodium and calcium.
Stress goes up and you lose those minerals.
And so you want to make sure that you're getting
a high intake of calcium in your diet relative to phosphate,
because that will lower the parathyroid hormone
and lower the mobilization of calcium from your bones.
And when you're protecting your bones,
you're also protecting your hair follicles.
The parathyroid hormone is very closely connected
to the metabolism of the hair follicle.
And parathyroid inhibits energy production in mitochondria.
And when it does that in the hair follicle,
the hair follicle just doesn't have enough energy
to keep growing.
And vitamin D and calcium and thyroid hormone
are the things that will energize all of your cells,
including the hair follicle.
- Very interesting.
Dr. Peat, stay right there, please.
We're going to do a quick little break here and continue.
It'd be a great time for a little plug
that just fits right in.
We were going to do a spot,
but we think that this is a wonderful form of calcium
because it comes from oysters,
kind of like if you go through
the Max Planck Institute idea
that you don't want to do any kind of thing in your body
unless it's from a living source.
And these oysters are actually living.
They were before they busted them up.
They're tears of pearls.
They're pearls.
It's all made from pearls, this product.
Nothing but pearls.
And it's got a lot of calcium in there.
Not all of it, but a lot of it.
And we'll give you the dosage after you hear about it.
Previously with Dr. Rulon Chu
about her product called Pearlseum.
So let's talk about the teeth first.
Explain to me what's going on
because there's something magical
when you dip your little toothbrush in water.
Why do they look so sparkly and just, I don't know,
something very energetically about the look of them?
- Yeah, it's very, very magical.
So like a group of scientists in France
discovered that when you put the pearl next to the bones
or skins or other connective tissues,
and they find it stimulates new growth
of the bones and skins and connective tissues,
and also to make existing bones and the skins
more healthy and stronger.
So brush your teeth with the pearl,
then your teeth will make your existing teeth stronger.
And also it will fill up teeth with the Pearlseum
and the pearl powder will stimulate the new bone growth
and also make the existing teeth very strong.
- It's really a great product.
You'll love it.
Take it internally or on your teeth
and you can click an order, see the ad right there.
Pearlseum, that nice green container,
Pearlseum on oneradionetwork.com.
We're talking with Brandon Amelani
about his great product, the Blue Shield.
And the Blue Shield is, the main product is a cube
and it doesn't block the EMFs as some people think,
right, Brandon?
- That's correct, it doesn't.
It's really about the communication of the device
and the body and what we figured out
is how to communicate with the body and amp it up.
So it's affecting the cell voltage,
it's affecting the intercellular communication.
And the most important part is that it's getting the body
to stop fighting the EMF,
which are repetitive signals in the environment.
They're non-native, they're man-made
and the body raises white blood cell counts
and attacks it like it's a virus essentially.
- Interesting, that's very different technology
from most units around.
- Oh yeah, absolutely, this uses multiple scalar outputs
and it's really innovative, the scalar realm,
because it's using crystal photonics or light
to basically do this digital signaling
that creates these longitudinal waves
that move through time-space
and affect the subatomic structures between atoms.
So as it moves and passes through your body,
it's literally affecting the mental, emotional, physical
and spiritual components of what we're made up of.
- Well, as you can hear, this is interesting technology,
very different, and working on the cells in the body.
At the Blue Shield, it's on our website,
front page, use promo code, OneRadio, little cube,
take care of the whole house.
They also have a little personal guy
you can put in your pocket or purse.
Blue Shield, promo code, OneRadio, oneradionetwork.com.
- Yeah, that's right, and the little personal guy
is kind of fun, it's just a little small guy
and you can carry that around
and if you're getting blasted by cell phone towers
and stuff when you go into the city,
or if you're fortunate enough to live outside and all that,
that's kind of a nice thing.
Quick little plug here for Sithrival,
has two great products, Colostrum,
Colostrum and the Digestive Bitter is on sale right now.
It's a great sale, might check it out.
If you've not tried the Colostrum,
we think that you'll really like this one.
It's been around forever,
it's one of the flagship products of Daniel.
And if you use Healthy Gut as the promo code,
then they also have the Digestive Bitters on sale.
Healthy Gut, and that's the promo code
for Sir Thrival Links, oneradionetwork.com.
The sale going on right now.
- Know the source, One Radio Network.
- And we are talking with Dr. Ray Peat,
who's kind enough to come here once a month
and talk to us and see what's going on.
Have you, were you exposed to the smoke and all that?
Now you live up north, way up northwest, right?
- Yeah, for a couple of weeks.
We didn't go outside.
The sun looked like a maraschino cherry,
the smoke was so thick.
- My goodness, my goodness.
Has it pretty much, have they got these under control now?
- Yeah, the rain came about a week ago
and it seems to have put out the fires,
and the air is clean.
- This may be above your pay grade,
but this idea that these forests can be managed
by getting rid of the undergrowth,
President Trump was arguing for a long time ago,
is that viable, do you think?
Is that one of the ways to keep these things from burning,
getting rid of this stuff?
- That idea came in about 45 or 50 years ago,
and they said that the Indians used to manage the forests
that way, burning the undergrowth.
But by the time, in these recent decades,
by the time they decided to try that autonomous regulation,
the forests had been so devastated,
they had dried out, and the let it burn philosophy
was put in really as a ploy to get at the remaining
old-growth forests.
Supposedly, letting it burn would clean out the undergrowth
the way it used to 1,000 years ago,
but the forests aren't the way they used to be,
and when you let them burn, they go wild and destroy
the old trees instead of burning the undergrowth.
The stuff has accumulated to the point
that the whole thing is destroyed.
And when the government set aside these wilderness areas
of untouched old-growth trees,
the lumber companies wanted access to them,
so they passed the salvage laws that if there was a fire,
they could then go in and log even the undamaged trees
in an area where a burn had caused some damage.
So, functionally, it was a way for the lumber companies
to get at the set-aside old-growth forests.
And the number of forest fires beginning
in the old-growth areas suddenly expanded
a great increase of fire beginning
as soon as the salvage law was passed,
strongly suggesting arson to get at the trees
by starting a fire.
- Wow, man.
Interesting.
Elizabeth says she's on YouTube watching.
Ever since lockdowns, many more people
are experiencing panic attacks and vertigo.
Can Dr. Peate explain why this could be?
- Yeah, my latest newsletter was sort of stimulated
by that question of a rise in the,
of the inefficient metabolism of glucose,
producing lactic acid is associated with the panic attack.
If you give intravenous lactic acid, for example,
especially if a person is susceptible to the panic attacks,
they will trigger the attack.
The healthier person doesn't necessarily
experience a panic attack,
but it's the very powerful trigger.
And anxiety increases as your thyroid function goes down
and as your thyroid function goes down,
your tendency to produce lactic acid
instead of carbon dioxide increases.
Thyroid is needed to oxidize glucose
all the way to carbon dioxide.
And the carbon dioxide suppresses the excitatory nerves
and blocks the formation of free lactic acid.
So thyroid improves your metabolic efficiency
and prevents these attacks of anxiety and hyperventilation.
If a person is at all susceptible to a panic attack,
if you have them breathe, hyperventilate,
breathe as fast as they can for a minute or two,
that will usually trigger a tremendous increase
in lactic acid and panic attack
simply because the hyperventilating
makes you lose your carbon dioxide.
And in the loss of the carbon dioxide,
you produce too much lactic acid.
And the excitatory processes of glutamatergic
stimulation, basic excitatory process in the brain
takes over in the absence of carbon dioxide.
- So that idea when we breathe less or do more of the Buteyko
so we're not getting rid of the carbon dioxide,
that helps when we feel anxious.
- Yeah, carbon dioxide has a sedative
or even anesthetic effect
when you get very large amounts of it.
- Matt is watching the show on YouTube.
Hi, Matt.
Does high-dose dosing bone broth have benefits
like above 50 ounces a day?
- When people talk about bone broth,
sometimes they are thinking of long,
like thigh bones and shin bones of a beef or lamb.
And those are full of marrow, which is full of iron.
And if you boil a bone containing marrow for a long time,
the iron attacks the fats and creates a bad taste
and toxins.
So I don't think it's a good idea at all
to make soup from the long bones.
But the knobby ends of the bones,
where the cartilage at the surface of the joint
and the ligaments that hold the joints together
and the tendons where the muscles are attached,
those are the good material for making stock.
The proper bone broth should be from the knobby cartilage
and collagen-rich tissues.
And the broth, when you cool it, should be rubbery.
You should be able to bounce your broth when it's cold.
- Yeah, very good.
So this idea that, it's curious that iron
is in these long bones.
I don't know if places you buy the bones,
they may chop up those bones and put them in there.
So I guess you gotta be careful of what you're doing.
So just speaking of iron in general,
there are people that advocate us giving blood
every two or three times a year to lower our iron levels.
Do you think that's valuable, interesting?
- Yeah, the studies that have been done
of regular blood donors,
they are much healthier than the average population.
- Lowering the iron level?
- I think that's a big part of it,
but they're also getting rid of some of the
stress-induced exosomes.
There have been some very good studies in which
you separate the clear part of the blood plasma,
and you're concentrating the platelets,
and along with the platelets,
the usually invisible exosome fraction.
You need an electron microscope to see them,
but when you take the plasma from an old animal
and put it in a young animal, it induces aging.
And if you reverse the process,
put young plasma into an old animal, you delay aging.
So these exosome fractions also contain stress signals
and aging degenerative signals.
Or reparative, restorative signals,
depending on the source, the state of the animal
donating the material.
So if you're experiencing stress and donating blood,
you're getting rid of some of these signals
of stress and aging.
- Do we give it to the people they give the blood to?
- Yeah, you're giving them your age and stress.
- All right, well, it's always something.
John writes in on YouTube,
"You have mentioned that pregnenolone
is found in organ meats.
How much pregnenolone in milligrams
would be like for a typical serving of organ meat
that humans consume as foods such as beef liver or the like?"
Do we know?
- Adrenal glands and gonads are the only sources
that have a medically important quantity of it.
Every cell has some, but the adrenals are very rich in it,
several milligrams per gland.
So that's been the basis for adrenal extract
or just recommending eating adrenal glands,
or gonads because of the precursor steroid,
which is there for making the potentially harmful
cortisol and estrogen.
The precursor material is beneficial,
but the end hormone can be disruptive.
- Very interesting.
Any chance Dr. Peat could explain how many times a week
and for how long could we use progesterone
for male pattern hair loss?
- Oh, I've known people who stopped and reversed it
by daily application of oily progesterone to the scalp.
It's messy and unpleasant,
but it can change the course of the hair loss,
especially if you back it up with a high calcium diet
and thyroid as needed.
But a lot of men are now supplementing five to 10 milligrams
when they're in middle age and they find that
by limiting their pituitary stress signals,
they're lowering their body estrogen
and that's having a rejuvenating effect on their tissue.
They even feel like they're having more testosterone
because they aren't wasting it, turning it to estrogen.
- Interesting.
So the one you like is that, what is it called,
Progest-E or no?
- Yeah, the Kenogen Progest-E Complex.
- Yeah, Complex.
Now I got some of that, but they were talking about drops,
but if you put it in the fridge,
you can't even get the stuff out.
And then I kept it on the counter.
You can't really do a drop, it just kind of comes out
and pop.
So I mean, I guess you just do a little bit of it
and don't worry.
- Yeah, you just don't want to let it stand in the sunlight
because sunlight degrades the vitamin E,
but the progesterone is safe at room temperature
indefinitely.
- Okay, but it's not real critical
exactly how much you get in there?
- No, if you took half a teaspoon at one dose,
it might make you drunk for a while.
(laughing)
- We're pretty drunk anyway, Doc.
Another emailer off on YouTube wants to know,
well, what would one do after finding a lump
on one of my testicles?
Not good.
- If it's in the testicle,
that definitely is evidence that you should have examined
a possible testicular cancer,
but it should include an examination
of your pituitary hormones.
- Okay.
- Because if you, for example, remove one testicle,
your pituitary becomes overactive
and that will increase the risk of cancer developing
by overstimulating it.
The same with adrenal glands or the thyroid.
Increased pituitary activity is a major driver
of tissue stress and cancerization.
So making sure that your pituitary is not overactive
is something that should go along
with examining whether it's cancerous.
- Good job.
Richard is in Denmark.
Ever been to Denmark, Dr. Peat?
- Yes, went through it.
- Yeah, Denmark.
And he says, could you play us back Peat what to do with pain related to... I'm gonna try
this one, Gliospargenoneuralgia, am I saying that, Glossopharyngealneuralgia, and it seems
to get worse when lying down. What is that, glossophyllneuralgia?
What was the first...
G-L-O-S-S-O-P-H-A-R-Y-N-G-E-A-L, like the pharynx.
That would be the throat.
The throat, right, yeah.
It could be related to the reflux problem. When you lie down, your sympathetic nervous
system decreases and your parasympathetic activity increases, and that affects your
swallowing and intestinal peristalsis. And especially if you're hypothyroid, you can
have exaggerated parasympathetic action, and that can lead to even reverse peristalsis
and spasms of the various sphincters of the esophagus, and I assume it would be connected
to this throat area's pain and spasms.
Fascinating. Naomi's on YouTube watching. Hi Naomi. What does high albumin in a blood
test mean? High albumin.
Usually, it's a sign of dehydration. You should check everything else. For example, the red
blood cell count is usually increased. If you're exercising, for example, if you haven't
had anything to drink for a long time and walked for half an hour in warm weather before
having the blood drawn, your blood would be a little drier, and that would make your red
cell count and your albumin increase. But ordinarily, it's good to have albumin around
4.5 to 5. What's dangerous is when it gets below 4 or 40, however the scale is.
Gotcha. Patrick Timpone along with Dr. Ray Peat. Doc, we'd like to stick around just
a few more minutes if you don't mind. We got started late, and do a couple of more
emails. People have some good questions. I just want to give a quick plug here. I won't
take a long time for this hydrogen machine. I went to a body worker that I've been going
to for several years. Very good. He knows my body, and he remembers. He said, "Well,
the last time this wasn't here, I mean, this guy's really on it." I went last week, and
I hadn't been able to go for about six months because they had all kinds of weird things
going on with the corona thing, and I didn't want to wear a mask and all that. So it was
like six months. So I went to him last week, a 90-minute session. And he, two or three
different times during the session, he said, "I've never felt your body so hydrated as
you are today." I've known this guy for two or three years. "Never," he said.
"What are you doing?" So the only thing I know that I'm doing very differently is I'm
drinking the hydrogen-rich water from this machine, the Aquacure machine, and also breathing
the gas. George says that this helps with hydration, dehydration, dehydrogen. There's
science that shows that as well. You can go to molecularhydrogeninstitute.com and look
at all the huge amount of peer-reviewed studies that talk about hydrogen. And this is Brown's
gas. So this may help you with hydrating as well. He said it about three times. I mean,
he just couldn't believe it. He said, "My whole body was never seen this hydrated, well
hydrated." Pretty cool. Drinking the water and breathing the gas. It's anecdotal, but
could be something there for you that's interesting. So that's hydrogen. You can click an order.
Use the promo code, OneRadio, oneradionetwork.com. The Aquacure Hydrogen Brown's Gas Machine
on our website. We are listener supported. One Radio Network.
We're with Dr. Ray Peat. This may be above your or not in your bailiwick doc, but we'll
give it a shot. I have a nine-year-old dog that keeps getting these little lipomas, little
fatty deposits. Not very big, but there's a few on her body. The vet says there's nothing
to worry about. Do you have an opinion about these? Do you know about what could be lipomas
in animals and what could be causing them?
I think it's the same as in humans, a slight hormone imbalance. Parathyroid hormone and
thyroid hormone are the main things behind the problem of collecting fat in irritated
areas especially. So checking the amount of calcium in the diet relative to phosphate,
it should be a fairly high amount of calcium, not too much phosphate. With the dog, that
means including maybe some cottage cheese or milk in the diet.
We'll give them more calcium. Most people that are really into their dogs, they're on
a more meat-based diet because they're carnivores, but that has a lot of phosphate, right?
Yeah. Carnivores always would eat some of the small bones. Some people eating chickens,
for example, like to eat the ribs and other small bones. If you have good teeth, and carnivores
traditionally have eaten a lot of the bones.
So this person could try a personal product, which is pearls or bones, more bones, and
also cottage cheese or cream or something.
Calcium isn't such a good source of calcium.
Milk is.
Yeah. Oyster shells and egg shells are extremely good sources of extra calcium, but people
fear giving their dogs bones.
As long as they're raw, that's fine, right?
Yeah. A dog with good teeth can crunch the bones up and get their calcium from bones.
Sure. So the calcium phosphorus could be an antagonist to the thyroid, which could straighten
out with more calcium, possibly?
Yeah. Having an excess of calcium and a slight excess even of sodium goes together with guaranteeing
that your cell energy is going to be supported and close to a maximum. It's a deficiency
of both sodium and calcium that leads to a rise in stress hormones and parathyroid hormone
and suppression of the thyroid.
And that could induce this person's dog to form these little lumps.
Yeah. Too much phosphate in the diet has an irritating effect that I think contributes
to little tumor-like developments that can be fatty. Fibrous and fatty tumors develop
irritants.
So in nature, in wolves and such, then that would balance out by eating more bones, right?
Yeah. Bones are good. If you don't specialize in aged animals, some of the bone meal supplements
decades ago were made from aged animals that were at the end of their lifespan, so their
bones were loaded up on heavy metals, very high in lead and other toxic heavy metals.
So if they're made from the regular meat animals, then the bones are safe.
Jeremy said, "I began taking 60 grains of thyroid, the T3 and the T4. My body temperature
was low." I'm paraphrasing, it's kind of long. And it was at 97, like 97.5, and it
just kind of stays there.
And then I increased, as Dr. Peat recommended, maybe after a week or two, I went to 120 grains
and my pulse rate increased from 60 to 75. But my body temperature didn't move at all.
"Am I on the right track? Should I keep going, do you think, with what I'm doing?" writes
Jeremy.
It depends on what kind of thyroid it is. You want to make sure it's, if it's a glandular
product, you might try a different product because every source, they are no longer standardizing
the process of manufacturing it. And some of them are apparently not as well selected
purified, glandular tissues, so the potency can vary.
Brody Barnes sometimes would prescribe as much as five grains or 300 milligrams.
That's a lot.
The standard tablets are rated from as small as a fourth of a grain, 15 milligrams, up
to the 300 milligram five-grain tablets. And the veterinarians said that cocker spaniels
typically needed one of the five-grain tablets because they have such a tendency to hypothyroidism.
But I've only seen a few people, maybe five or 10% of the people on a thyroid supplement
who needed as much as five grains a day.
So are there actually products out there that we know for thyroid people that are using
the, what did you say, the glandular? Are there products that they can get through their doctor?
Yeah, the Armour product has been passed through several different companies and its quality
has changed over the last 30 years. But I think they're now making a moderately well-standardized
product. But I still use Sinoplus as a reliable dose-consistent product.
And the Sinoplus from Mexico, that gets you the T3 and the T4, right?
Mm-hmm.
And you start the same way. Did you do the same grams gross?
Yeah, the tablet contains 120 micrograms of T4 and 30 micrograms of T3. In the old conversion,
that would be two and a half grains, roughly equivalent.
And do you remember, recall the name of the place that you gave us in Mexico that might
be the place to get this Sinoplus?
Yeah, Farmacias Del Nino.
Del Nino, right.
Dot-mex.
M-X, yeah. Farmacia Del Nino dot M-X. And pretty reliable. So the Sinoplus then gives
you the T3 and the T4 in a glandular, right?
No, it's based on the glandular, but it's a synthetic equivalent. The Armour Company
created the first balanced synthetic, and they called it Thyrolar. And other companies,
especially the one that makes Sinoplus, simply imitated one of the Thyrolar tablets, but
now they only have the one potency. So you generally want to start with a fourth of a
tablet because it's a fairly high potency tablet.
So you don't have a problem then with the Sinoplus from Mexico, even though it's
synthetic, it works?
Yeah, it's based on the content of the original Armour product.
So the body doesn't kind of know the difference?
No, they're chemically the same.
Really? Interesting. Why does Dr. Peat think that there's so many alternative health
experts that are so strongly advocating fish oil and Omega-3 supplementation? That's
an interesting question. There's a lot of them, right, out there.
Oh yeah, it's all advertising based.
Really?
It used to be the seed oils that were recommended by alternative health people and nutritionists.
Starting in the 1950s, they had their cotton seed oil and safflower seed oil and soy oil.
The market for paints, varnishes and plastics made from the seed oils disappeared when petroleum
chemists learned how to make them very cheaply from petroleum. So the industry producing
those oils needed a new market and so they decided to call them essential fatty acids.
If they're essential, then the reasoning was more of them must be good and so they sold
them on the basis that they were found to lower blood cholesterol. What they were doing
was injuring the tissues causing cholesterol to build up in your liver and other tissues
so the blood level of cholesterol went down. So the essential fatty acids for about 30
years were the alternative and standard medical remedy for circulatory disease, even though
scientifically these polyunsaturated fats are very closely connected to inflammation
of the arteries and degeneration of the tissues and suppression of thyroid function.
A big study by the Veterans Administration found that not only did these essential fatty
acids fail to solve heart disease mortality, they increased it, but at the same time they
caused several fold increase in cancer mortality. That was very bad for the health promoting
advertising industry and so they decided if the essential fatty acids are toxic, we have
to come up with something else. Oh yeah, it's the N-3 essential fatty acids that are really
essential and so they shifted over to a different kind of polyunsaturated fat.
The science, mink breeders for example, knew for decades that if they fed them fish, they
died of yellow fat disease and other degenerative conditions. So the toxicity of the fish oil
was known for just about as long as the toxicity of the soy oil category. But it takes about
50 years for science to overcome advertising and we're just now reaching the point where
people are starting to question the safety of the fish oils.
But you know the proponents of it, they argue that well, they used to use cod liver oil
a couple hundred years ago and it was fine and it helped people. Is there any evidence
to that, cod liver oil being beneficial?
Oh sure, vitamin D and A in the liver oil, those are so protective that in spite of the
fairly large amount of polyunsaturated fats that went along with it, making sure that
your vitamin D and A are adequate, those are so important for the health that you can somewhat
neglect the toxic fish oils that are associated with them.
I see, but that's in a cod liver, right, a good cod liver oil, not just what they call
fish oil, difference, right?
Yeah, the liver is very high in the protective vitamins and not so high in the PUFA as in
plain fish oil.
So possibly these cod liver oil from a good source could be used for healing if somebody
is low on A or something and not necessarily get you yellow fat disease 30 years later?
Probably not, a tablespoon per day wouldn't reach the very acute kind of degenerative
processes that eating fatty fish every day can do.
Yeah, is there a big difference, before we go, of the kinds of fish we get at the fish
counter, you know, you have so many different choices, you know, salmon, cod, oysters, any
kind of ideas there from you as far as our best choices?
Yeah, you want to avoid the very big fish that are old because over years of eating
little fish, they accumulate more and more toxic heavy metals, so tuna and orange ruffey
for example are usually fairly old and big, and so moderate sized fish like sole and cod,
they are lower in the heavy metals and they also are relatively low in polyunsaturated
fats, so I avoid eating very often salmon or herring or the fatty fish.
Do you think fish with all the challenges in the water, potential mercury, Dr. Peat,
are worth eating?
They help us to stay healthy, do you think?
Some kind of seafood about once a week will provide selenium, that's one of the very
important things that you always get from seafood, so it could be shrimp or oysters
or cod or sole or any kind of marine food will give you a little bit of copper and other
trace minerals and iodine along with the essential selenium which can be deficient in land grown
food.
Yeah, well Dr. Peat, thanks for sticking around a little bit longer today, we had a lot of,
still never get through all of them but we do what we can.
We appreciate your time, you stay well up there and visit Dr. Peat at raypeat.com, you
can try his newsletter, it's raypeat's plural newsletter at gmail.com, comes out every couple
of months for a few bucks and support him and stuff and Dr. Peat, thanks a lot, we appreciate
your work and let us know if there's anything we can do to help you.
Okay, thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Bye-bye.
Bye.
This is Patrick Timpone, it's OneRadioNetwork.com.
So, so much fun talking to him.
Boy, it gets a little geeky and it's great, you actually understand some, you know, it's
like, "Whoa!"
You connect all the dots but it's really, really fun to have him on.
We do the best we can with the questions.
I hope we're able to get to yours.
I'm going to go through and get all the ones that we still have in the hopper.
So, for the next, for his November show, we're going to start with some of the older ones.
Sorry if we can't get to them all.
Sometimes it's just tough to kind of figure it out, you know, get them all in but we do
what we can.
Okay, we are live here Monday and tomorrow we're going to talk with Gerald Pollard and
also, who else are we talking to tomorrow?
Oh, a fellow about the deep state, Whitehead, Mr. Whitehead.
And we're going to do a couple of other things this week too.
So, stay tuned, stay in touch with us, let us know if we can help.
Two ways to know these kind of great interviews that are going to be coming your way on the
front page of One Radio Network.
One is sign up for a newsletter right at the top of the front page and a couple times a
week you'll just get a little email in your inbox and tell you who we're going to have on.
Also, you know, keep in touch with us on Facebook because we stream these shows right there
as well.
I know there's a way to notify you when we put on a stream but I haven't quite figured
that out.
If anybody knows how to do that, let me know.
And then on Ubi2bi, if you go to our YouTube channel and you can get there by clicking
on YouTube on the top right of One Radio Network or just put in YouTube Patrick Timpone, click
on the subscribe button and then there's a little bell right to the right of the subscribe
button, click on that baby and every time we do a stream like this one, whether it's
recorded or live, they call it live stream, either way you'll get a notification saying,
"Hey, we got a new one that's put up there."
So that's a nice way to do that.
Do the little bell thing on the right, otherwise the notification thing doesn't work.
Okay, thank you for your ongoing support.
I appreciate you trusting some of these products that we talk about and if I have, if there's
any way I can help you with these or anything else, my email, I don't go far from the email
unfortunately, but unfortunately it's patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
Patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
Okay kids, I love you all very much.
May the blessings be and we'll see you real soon.
Stay tuned, stay in touch.
We are listener supported.
One Radio Network.
you
(vibrant music)